Working doc for edge|node|individual values & spotted an error (#1)
jeromekelleher/tstrait: docs/individual_node_edge.md

---
kernelspec:
  name: python3
  display_name: python3
jupytext:
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: '0.13'
    jupytext_version: 1.13.8
---

```{eval-rst}
.. currentmodule:: tstrait
```

(genetic_individual_node_edge_doc)=

# Individual, node, and edge genetic values

In line with the {ref}`tree sequence data model<tskit:sec_data_model>`,
this page describes relationships between
individual, node, and edge genetic values,
and underlying edge effects arising from mutations.

**Learning Objectives**

After this page, you will be able to:

> - Understand how to obtain genetic value in tstrait for individuals, nodes, and edges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Understand how to obtain genetic values in tstrait for individuals, nodes, and edges
```

Author: Done on my end hence resolving.

- Understand how causal-allele effects give rise to edge effects and
  the genetic values.

# Algorithm Overview

> The tstrait algorithm for [individuals' genetic values](genetic_value_doc)

Reviewer: I don't understand how these cross refs work - I think it's better to use the built-in sphinx/myst linking as used elsewhere.

Author: Ah, the package already uses two styles, which confused me too, and I got carried away in applying consistent use of internal and external links!

Markdown-style links use:

```
[text](tag)
```

Sphinx/MyST cross-references use:

```
{ref}`req_genetic_df`
```

From your comment, I assume let's switch Markdown to Sphinx/MyST style. Can you confirm so I don't churn too much "code" in a PR?

Reviewer: Let's stick with myst/sphinx for new code, but I'd just leave any existing markdown style as is. Can't fix everything in one go

Author: OK, will do and keep this focused (though happy to do it across the docs so that we don't end up in the same question on which style to use - let me know). Will resolve this now.

can also be used to compute node and edge genetic values,
and there is the related concept of edge effects;
all following the assumed [quantitative genetics model](phenotype_model).
These quantities are related as follows:

- *edge effect* is the sum of effects of causal alleles introduced on the edge by mutations.

> - *edge "genetic" value* is its edge effect plus a sum of edge effects above the edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *edge "genetic" value* is its edge effect plus a sum of edge effects ancestral to the edge.
```

"above" is vague

Author: Done on my end hence resolving.

> - *node "genetic" value* is a sum of "genetic" values of incoming edges into the node.

Reviewer: "incoming" as in ancestral to? "incoming" usually implies all connecting edges, including children.

Author: Yes, as in "ancestral to", but just the "immediately ancestral" hence why I used "incoming", but didn't appreciate the possible fowards- and backwards-in-time views of the "incoming"! Is there a neat word for "immediately ancestral"?

Reviewer: Immediately ancestral sounds very good to me

Author: OK. Done on my end hence resolving this comment.
